[DOCS] DOC-648: Update About GX Cloud to reflect GX Agent running in deployment environment (#9327)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/about_gx.md

### GX Cloud components

- **GX Cloud data storage** - Stores your organization's Data Source, Data Asset, Expectation Suite, and Checkpoint configurations and your organization's Validation run histories and Data Asset descriptive metrics.

> - **GX Cloud web UI** - Provides a portal to manage and validate your organization's data quality without running Python code, and enables shared visibility into your organization's Validation Results and Checkpoint run history. It's browser- and platform-independent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GX Cloud web UI** - A web interface that allows you to manage and validate your organization's data quality without running Python code and enables shared visibility into your organization's Validation Results and Checkpoint run history. It's browser- and platform-independent.
```

- **GX Cloud API** - Provides a REST API to programmatically access and manage GX Cloud data and configurations. Both the GX open source software (OSS) client and the GX Agent use the GX Cloud API to query data from and send data to GX Cloud. Documentation for the GX Cloud API is not currently available, and it is not yet intended for use outside the GX OSS client and the GX Agent.

- **GX Cloud message broker** - Enables communication between GX Cloud and the GX Agent.

### Local and deployment components

- **GX OSS client** - The Python library that powers GX Cloud and provides a Python client for programmatic access to GX Cloud. GX OSS contains the logic needed to test and document your organization's data, and you can also use it to create, manage, and interact with GX Cloud components.

> - **GX Agent** - A utility that runs in your organization's deployment environment. While running, the GX Agent can receive tasks generated from the GX Cloud web UI, such as running a Checkpoint or fetching Column Descriptive Metrics, and execute these tasks against your Data Assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GX Agent** - A utility that runs in your organization's deployment environment. While running, the GX Agent can receive tasks generated from the GX Cloud web UI, such as running a Checkpoint or fetching Metrics, and execute these tasks against your Data Assets.
```
We're not using _column descriptive metrics_ in the UI.  We're using _descriptive metrics_ and _Metrics_. I have asked that we use a single term consistently. I use _Metrics_.

![image](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/assets/104205257/05be9fb9-b467-49d5-a3d3-edcfdc1ae49f)

## GX Agent

> The GX Agent serves as an intermediary between GX Cloud and your organization's data stores. The GX Agent performs jobs initiated from the GX Cloud web UI; GX Cloud does not connect directly to your data. All data access occurs within the Agent, and the results of jobs are sent from the Agent to GX Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GX Agent is an intermediary between GX Cloud and your organization's data stores. The GX Agent performs jobs initiated from the GX Cloud web UI; GX Cloud does not connect directly to your data. All data access occurs within the GX Agent, and the GX Agent sends job results to GX Cloud.
```

The GX Agent is [typically deployed in your organization's cloud services environment](./connect/connect_snowflake#deploy-the-gx-agent) and serves all GX Cloud users within your organization. It can be run as part of development or production workflows.

## GX Cloud deployment patterns

> GX Cloud deployments can be tailored to meet your specific business requirements. The following factors determine what deployment pattern is most suited for your organization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GX Cloud deployments can be tailored to meet your specific business requirements. The following factors determine what deployment pattern is most suitable for your organization:
```

- Whether your users want to interact with the GX OSS client locally, or use only the GX Cloud web UI.

- The deployment environment in which you run the GX Agent - for example, development or production.

> - Whether you choose to integrate GX Cloud into your data pipeline infrastructure via an orchestrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether you integrate GX Cloud into your data pipeline infrastructure with an orchestrator.
```

### Users interact with the GX Cloud web UI only

> GX Cloud supports the creation of multiple types or Data Sources and Data Assets within the web UI. If your organization is using GX Cloud to test and validate data from these sources, a deployment pattern in which the GX Agent runs in your organization's deployment environment and users leverage the GX Cloud web UI to manage GX workflows is recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GX Cloud supports multiple Data Sources within the web UI. If your organization uses GX Cloud to test and validate data from these Data Sources, a deployment pattern in which the GX Agent runs in your organization's deployment environment, and users leverage the GX Cloud web UI to manage GX workflows is recommended.
```

![GX deployment in which users interact with the GX Cloud web UI only and the GX Agent is run in a deployment environment](./architecture_deployment_images/deployment_web_ui_only.png)

### Users interact with both the GX Cloud web UI and GX OSS client

> If your organization needs to use GX to connect to, test, and validate multiple Data Sources supported by GX OSS, a deployment pattern that allows users to interact with the GX Cloud web UI and with the GX OSS client locally is recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your organization needs to test and validate multiple Data Sources supported by GX OSS, a deployment pattern that allows users to interact with the GX Cloud web UI and with the GX OSS client locally is recommended.
```

> ![GX deployment in which users use the GX OSS client to create and manage GX Cloud content, access the GX Cloud web UI to manage and monitor GX workflows, and the GX Agent is  in a deployment environment](./architecture_deployment_images/deployment_local_gx_oss_client.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![GX deployment in which users use the GX OSS client to create and manage GX Cloud content, access the GX Cloud web UI to manage and monitor GX workflows, and the GX Agent is in a deployment environment](./architecture_deployment_images/deployment_local_gx_oss_client.png)
```

### GX Cloud components

- **GX Cloud data storage** - Stores your organization's Data Source, Data Asset, Expectation Suite, and Checkpoint configurations and your organization's Validation run histories and Data Asset descriptive metrics.

- **GX Cloud web UI** - A web interface that allows you to manage and validate your organization's data quality without running Python code and enables shared visibility into your organization's Validation Results and Checkpoint run history. It's browser- and platform-independent.

- **GX Cloud API** - Provides a REST API to programmatically access and manage GX Cloud data and configurations. Both the GX open source software (OSS) client and the GX Agent use the GX Cloud API to query data from and send data to GX Cloud. Documentation for the GX Cloud API is not currently available, and it is not yet intended for use outside the GX OSS client and the GX Agent.

> 

Reviewer 2: We also mention Deployment Environment in the diagram, I think this is a good opportunity to clarify what that means and gives examples aka your kube cluster on EC2 etc

Author: I think we want to be careful about citing specifics, as organization deployment environments (dev/stage/prod) will differ, but I think we can add some clarification in the GX Agent bullet - I'll do that.

- **GX Cloud message broker** - Enables communication between GX Cloud and the GX Agent.

### Deployment components

- **GX OSS client** - The Python library that powers GX Cloud and provides a Python client for programmatic access to GX Cloud. GX OSS contains the logic needed to test and document your organization's data, and you can also use it to create, manage, and interact with GX Cloud components.

- **GX Agent** - A utility that runs in your organization's deployment environment. While running, the GX Agent can receive tasks generated from the GX Cloud web UI, such as running a Checkpoint or fetching Metrics, and execute these tasks against your Data Assets.

## GX Agent

The GX Agent is an intermediary between GX Cloud and your organization's data stores. GX Cloud does not connect directly to your data, all data access occurs within the GX Agent. GX Cloud sends jobs to the GX Agent, the GX Agent executes these jobs against your data, and then sends the job results to GX Cloud.

> The GX Agent is [typically deployed in your organization's deployment environment](./connect/connect_lp) and serves all GX Cloud users within your organization. It can be run as part of your development or production workflows.

Reviewer 2: The link here is broken, is that preview only?

Author: Good question - I missed this in the various commits on this PR. This originally linked to [the GX Agent deployment instructions](https://deploy-preview-9327.docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/cloud/connect/connect_snowflake#deploy-the-gx-agent) (currently in the Snowflake docs) - I think that's probably the most appropriate link until the deployment instructions are in multiple Connect pages. What do you think @kwcanuck ?

Reviewer: @rachhouse /docs/cloud/connect/connect_lp ([Connect GX Cloud](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/cloud/connect/connect_lp)) is probably the best option for deployment environments. I'm in the process of adding content for PostgreSQL.

Author: @kwcanuck Gotcha, thanks for weighing in. I've updated the _GX Agent_ section to reword how we couch that link and to address @joshzzheng's feedback on providing a clarifying example of deployment environment.

## GX Cloud deployment patterns

GX Cloud deployments can be tailored to meet your specific business requirements. To determine which deployment pattern and GX architectural components are most suitable for your organization, determine how your data is accessed and how users interact with GX Cloud.

The following table shows the connection options.

| Deployment pattern | Environment | GX Agent | GX OSS client |
| :-- | :-- | :--: | :--: |

> | Org-hosted | Deployment | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | |

Reviewer 2: Might just be my personal preference, no strong feelings here but it seems to make more sense to have GX Agent/OSS as rows and patterns as columns? Those are the two products, and the patterns are the capabilities they offer.

Author: I feel strongly that the current table setup makes more sense.
1. The GX Agent is not a product, it's a piece of the GX Cloud architecture. GX OSS is technically a product, but in this context, it is also being referenced as a piece of the GX Cloud architecture.
2. This section is not about product comparisons (GX Cloud is the product) - it's about the composition of possible deployment patterns. I think using rows for the deployment pattern table reinforces that purpose.

> | Org-hosted | Deployment | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | |

Reviewer 2: Should we define what each of these deployment patterns mean? I think a specific example would be helpful here.

Reviewer 2: Oh I see they are more defined later in the doc

Author: Yup! :)

| Self-hosted | Local | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | |
| Orchestrated | Deployment or local | | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> |

The following table shows how users can access GX Cloud.

| Access method | GX Cloud | GX OSS client |
| :-- | :--: | :--: |
| UI | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | |

> | Programmatic | | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div>  |

Reviewer 2: Do we want to say Programmatic? Would "Python" or "Python API" be more clear?

Author: I think "Python API" makes sense, good suggestion! I'll update this.

| UI and programmatic | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> |

### Org-hosted deployment pattern

> In an org-hosted deployment, you run the GX Agent in your organization's deployment environment, for example, development or production. The GX Agent is an intermediary between GX Cloud and your organization's deployment environment data stores. Organization users can interact with GX Cloud using the web UI, the GX OSS client, or both.

Author: @kwcanuck Just calling this out since I forgot to mention it during our conversation - I kept the example of dev/prod as a deployment environment instead of saying "deployment development or production environment" because a deployment environment could also be staging or UAT.
```
...GX Agent in your organization's deployment environment, for example, development or production.
```

### GX Cloud components

- **GX Cloud data storage** - Stores your organization's Data Source, Data Asset, Expectation Suite, and Checkpoint configurations and your organization's Validation run histories and Data Asset descriptive metrics.

- **GX Cloud web UI** - A web interface that allows you to manage and validate your organization's data quality without running Python code and enables shared visibility into your organization's Validation Results and Checkpoint run history. It's browser- and platform-independent.

- **GX Cloud API** - Provides a REST API to programmatically access and manage GX Cloud data and configurations. Both the GX open source software (OSS) client and the GX Agent use the GX Cloud API to query data from and send data to GX Cloud. Documentation for the GX Cloud API is not currently available, and it is not yet intended for use outside the GX OSS client and the GX Agent.

- **GX Cloud message broker** - Enables communication between GX Cloud and the GX Agent.

> ### Local and deployment components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deployment components
```

- **GX OSS client** - The Python library that powers GX Cloud and provides a Python client for programmatic access to GX Cloud. GX OSS contains the logic needed to test and document your organization's data, and you can also use it to create, manage, and interact with GX Cloud components.

- **GX Agent** - A utility that runs in your organization's deployment environment. While running, the GX Agent can receive tasks generated from the GX Cloud web UI, such as running a Checkpoint or fetching Metrics, and execute these tasks against your Data Assets.

## GX Agent

> The GX Agent is an intermediary between GX Cloud and your organization's data stores. The GX Agent performs jobs initiated from the GX Cloud web UI; GX Cloud does not connect directly to your data. All data access occurs within the GX Agent, and the GX Agent sends job results to GX Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GX Agent is an intermediary between GX Cloud and your organization's data stores. The GX Agent performs jobs initiated from the GX Cloud web UI without connecting directly to your data. All data access occurs within the GX Agent, and the GX Agent sends job results to GX Cloud.
```

> The GX Agent is [typically deployed in your organization's cloud services environment](./connect/connect_snowflake.md#deploy-the-gx-agent) and serves all GX Cloud users within your organization. It can be run as part of development or production workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GX Agent is [typically deployed in your organization's deployment environment](./connect/connect_lp) and serves all GX Cloud users within your organization. It can be run as part of your development or production workflows.
```

## GX Cloud deployment patterns

> GX Cloud deployments can be tailored to meet your specific business requirements. The two factors that determine the deployment pattern and GX architectural components most suitable for your organization are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GX Cloud deployments can be tailored to meet your specific business requirements. To determine which deployment pattern and GX architectural components are most suitable for your organization, consider the following:
```

> * The intermediary between GX Cloud and your data, and the environment in which it runs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do you want the GX Agent to be self-hosted or org-hosted?
```

> * How your users interact with GX Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How do you want users to interact with GX Cloud?
```

> ### GX Cloud intermediary access to data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deployment options
```

> | Access | GX Agent | GX OSS client |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Deployment method | GX Agent | GX OSS client |
```

| :-- | :--: | :--: |

> | Org-hosted | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> (Deployment environment) | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Org-hosted | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | |
```

> | Self-hosted | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> (Local environment) | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Self-hosted | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | |
```

> | Orchestrated | | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> (Deployment or local environment) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Orchestrated | | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> |
```

> ### User interaction with GX Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data access
```

> | Interaction | GX Cloud web UI | GX OSS client |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Access Method | GX Cloud | GX OSS client |
```

| :-- | :--: | :--: |

> | UI-based | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| UI | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | |
```

| Programmatic | | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div>  |

> | UI-based and programmatic | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| UI and programmatic | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> | <div align="center"><img alt="Yes" src="/img/simple_orange_circle.svg"/></div> |
```

What UI is used to access GX OSS?

### Org-hosted deployment pattern

> In an org-hosted deployment, you run the GX Agent in your organization's deployment environment, such as development or production. The GX Agent serves as an intermediary between GX Cloud and your organization data stores available in the deployment environment. Organization users interact with GX Cloud using the web UI and/or using the GX OSS client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an org-hosted deployment, you run the GX Agent in your organization's deployment development or production environment. The GX Agent is an intermediary between GX Cloud and your organization's deployment environment data stores. Organization users can interact with GX Cloud using the web UI, the GX OSS client, or both.
```

![GX Cloud org-hosted deployment](./architecture_deployment_images/org_hosted_deployment.png)

### Self-hosted deployment pattern

> In a self-hosted deployment, you run the GX Agent in your local environment, such as on a laptop, using Docker. The GX Agent serves as an intermediary between GX Cloud and your locally available data stores. You can interact with GX Cloud using the web UI, the GX OSS client, or both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a self-hosted deployment, you use Docker to run the GX Agent in your local environment. The GX Agent is an intermediary between GX Cloud and your local data stores. You can interact with GX Cloud using the web UI, the GX OSS client, or both.
```

![GX Cloud self-hosted deployment](./architecture_deployment_images/self_hosted_deployment.png)

### Orchestrated deployment pattern

> In an orchestrated deployment pattern, you use the GX OSS client as an intermediary to access your organization's data stores and to store job results in GX Cloud. The GX OSS client can be run using an orchestrator to integrate GX Cloud into your existing data pipeline. Users can interact with GX Cloud using the web UI and/or using the GX OSS client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an orchestrated deployment pattern, you use an orchestrator to integrate GX Cloud into your existing data pipeline. You use the GX OSS client to access your organization's data stores and to store job results in GX Cloud. Users can interact with GX Cloud using the web UI, the GX OSS client, or both.
```
